HSMO_SRC.ZIP
************

This is the archive of the latest sources used to generate the HSMODA 
driver package containing SERSOFST.TXT compatible serial port drivers for 
Atari and compatible computers. The content was in the folder E:\AHSMOD of 
the harddisk in my Atari ST. Some sources are younger than the ones used 
for HSMODA07.LZH, the latest HSMODA package published by me some years 
ago.

This is free software. The author bears no liability for your use of these 
files. You use it completely at your own risk. There is only one rule the 
author demands to be obeyed: If you publish modifications, new binary 
distributions or even collections of files, you have to make clear that 
you are the publisher, and not the original author.


Why?
----
Years ago I promised to publish the HSMODA sources when I don't maintain 
it any longer. Admittedly, it took some time from non-maintainance to 
publication. If you start new projects, it is simply impossible to keep 
putting time into all old projects, to keep working all old systems you 
worked with.


Workflow and files
------------------
In the distant past I used the GFA assembler 1.5 (*.IS files in a GFA private 
format), but converted nearly all files to plain text *.S and adapted the 
syntax to the GEN.TTP assembler of the Devpack 3.1. The latter works under 
MagiC and larger screens without problems, but doesn't optimize forward 
branches and doesn't know symbolic (named) macro parameters.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\ contains the sources of the drivers and some folders. I worked always with 
the *TST.S source, and copied it to *<incrementing number>.S if I felt 
that I made some changes I wanted to keep. If I had some of these numbered 
copies in the folder, I moved them to E:\AHSMOD\OLD\.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\BIN\ contains the results of running the assembler GEN.TTP, 
that means the program files (drivers) ready for test or distribution.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\MAKE\ contains the scripts / batches (*.BAT) to run the 
assembler GEN.TTP with the correct parameters, to generate all different 
variations (like MFP_ST.PRG, MFP_TT.PRG) out of a single source. These 
*.BAT work with MCMD.TOS by Andreas Kromke, the shell shipped with MagiC, 
but are simple enough so that adaption to an other shell should be no 
problem.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\LIB\ contains the assembly source files used by more than 
one source, everything I wanted to have in a library. Usually these are 
macros and label definitions.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\DOKU\ contains the documentation in subfolders. It includes 
SERSOFST.TXT, the software interface between application programs and 
drivers, the whole package bases on.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\SCHWEIN\ contains a hack program to work around problems 
with exclusive file/driver open by some applications. Most drivers have a 
config option (HOG) now, so that it is no longer necessary.

E:\AHSMOD\CURR\SETTER.TOS\ contains the source (C compiled by Sozobon C) 
of the program used by the end user to configure the options embedded in 
the drivers.

There are some files which contain only tries / samples and are 
unfinished, like a parallel port driver. *.SRC files are plain text copies 
of *.IS files, without rework for an other assembler.

My text editor was Everest 3.0D.


Author
------
Postal address:
Harun Scheutzow
Zur Nachtheide 34
12557 Berlin, Germany

Email:
harun at scheutzow dot de
(Please do NOT place this address in a mailto link on any web page, 
because I hate SPAM/UBE.)

Web:
http://www.scheutzow.de

Date of publication:
2001-08-05


File formats
------------
*.ZIP  ZIP archive
*.LZH  LHARC archive
*.TXT  text
*.S    assembly source (text), usually for "GEN.TTP" from "Devpack 3.1"
*.IS   assembly source, GFA Assembler 1.5
other extensions: try as text

