This archive should contain three files:  README, this file; 
LANDMINE.PRG, the executable program; and LANDMINE.PAS, the HighSpeed 
Pascal source code.

How to play:

The Minefield is an eight by eight grid.  Under ten of the squares are 
mines. Your task is to uncover the fifty-four squares which do not 
have mines.  If you are successful, you win; if you uncover a square 
which contains a mine, you lose.

A square can be uncovered by putting the arrow on it and clicking the 
left mouse button.  If there is a mine on the square, it will be shown 
and the game ends.  If there is no mine, but there are mines in some 
of the eight adjacent squares, then the number of those mines will be 
shown in the square.  If there are no mines in that square or any 
adjacent ones, and the computer will help you a bit by uncovering all 
nearby empty squares.

If you think a square does have a mine, you can mark it with a flag by 
clicking the right mouse button.  If you later decide you are 
mistaken, another click with the right button will remove the flag.

The numbers which appear in the uncovered squares, along with the 
total number of mines flagged, are the "hints" you use to determine 
where the hidden mines are located.

The code:

I tried to put enough comments in the codes so that it could be easily 
followed.  If you have any questions I will be happy to try to answer 
them. If you have any suggestions for improving the code or the game, 
let me know.

I originally wrote this for hi-res, and later went back and added what 
was required for it to run in low res.  In other words, while it runs 
it low res it doesn't make good use of the color possibilities.  In 
fact, it doesn't look as good as the black & white version.
