                   GNCIPHER - CHALLENGES FROM THE CRYTO

GNCIPHER is a  game  produced for the Atari  ST  line  of  computers  as 
SHAREWARE.  We encourage you to give it to friends, neighbors,  and even 
your  enemies.  Please post this program to as many bulletin boards  and 
computer clubs of which you are a member or an assocaite so that it will 
become      widely     distributed     and     enjoyed      by      all. 
It may be freely copied and distributed for evaluation.

In brief, GNCIPHER is a  phrase decoding game  which is mouse driven and 
comes  with  a  large  library  of  pre-entered  phrases  called  CIPHER 
CHALENGES.  Cyrptography is a very difficult challenge, even with simple 
letter  replacement  as  is the case with GNCIPHER.  You will find  that 
some of CIPHER CHALLENGES vary from the easy to the extremely difficult.

GNCIPHER is distributed in an ARC file containing 4 files:

     README           this file
     GNCIPHER.PRG     the GNCIPHER program
     GNCIPHER.HLP     the GNCIPHER HELP file
     GNCIPHER.DAT     CIPHER CHALLENGE phrases (game data)

All the files,  except README,  must be located in the same directory in 
order  for  the game to operate.  GNCIPHER will not run when any file is 
absent.

The  CIPHER CHALLENGE phrases included in the original ARC file  are  to 
the  best  of  our knowledge all in the public  domain.  There  are  500 
phrases from famous,  infamous, and otherwise unknown people. Quotations 
are taken from famous Americans like George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, 
Thomas Jefferson,  Albert Einstein,  and Benjamin Franklin. Other quotes 
are  from Greek and Latin philosophers,  cultural groups  (e.g.  Polish, 
Italian,  etc.), world religions (e.g. Moslem, Confusism, Christianity),  
near modern politicians (e.g.  Eisenhower, Coolidge, Marx), and literary 
wits (e.g.  Mark Twain). The complexity and possible alien nature of the 
authors  names would exceedingly complicate the  CIPHER  CHALLENGES,  so 
they have been omitted for brevity.  For those interested in finding the 
source  of any given quotation or phrase,  a good book of phrases  at  a 
local library may be the best resource.

GNCIPHER has  been carefully tested for a long time before  release  for
public  consumption  and has  no known errors.  If you should  find that
GNCIPHER fails in some way, we suggest that you may wish to find another
copy  to  check  whether  one   of  the files  has  in some  way  become
corrupted.  We welcome all comments concerning our SHAREWARE program and 
would  encourage  you  to write to us using the  address  below  and  as
displayed in the GNCIPHER program.

Given the extensibility of the GNCIPHER.DAT file,  we  encourage you  to 
only distribute new GNCIPHER.DAT files  (containing extra phrases) which
you are certain do not infringe upon any copyrights.   Many  interesting,
amusing, and pithy comments exist which you may wish  to draw upon.  One
limitation  which  exists  in  this  version  of  GNCIPHER  is  that the 
GNCIPHER.DAT  file  can  only  contain  750 phrases.  This limitation is
enforced to  ensure  that GNCIPHER is able to load all the phrases  into 
memory on an Atari 520ST. We expect that most  people will likely choose
to try  the  500  supplied phrases before trying to add more.

Please  remember to register your copy of GNCIPHER.  More  information  on 
registration is contained in the GNCIPHER program itself.

                              The Good News Software Co.,
                              605 Ritson Road North,
                              Oshawa, Ontario, CANADA
                              L1G 5R5
