                         Star Dust

Words by: Mitchell Parish
Music by: Hoagy Carmicheal


Copyright: 1929 Mills Music, Inc. Copyright renewed.


A song to "millions of couples", Star Dust is definitely one of
the more romantic and best loved songs of the 20th century.  That
means our moms and pops and grandpas and grandmas and so on know
this one.  It's definitely before my time but, I love music old
and new and all kinds, so here is one to listen to.  Use a
straight acoustic piano sound for the ultimate in realism!


By the way....although this song was published in 1929, its first
million selling record wasn't until 1940 (an instrumental by
Artie Shaw and his orchestra)!

For history's sake, in the fall of 1927, Hoagy Carmichael, a
recently graduated attorney, pianist and jazz fan, had returned
to Indiana University probably to hang out and remember his
undergrad days.  He visited a romantic spot then called the
"spooning wall."  Sitting there alone he looked up at the clear,
star-filled sky and a phrase of music formed in his mind.  He
wushed over the the Book Nook, a campus restaurant, to work it
out on the piano.  Later he played the tune for his old roomate,
Stuart Gorrell, who gave "Star Dust" its name.

The song was originally intended as a swingy almost ragtime
piano piece.  In 1929, Victor Young, an arranger for the Isham
Jones Orchestra, was inspired to slow it down, changing it from a
"piano piece" to a "song".  Mitchell Parish was asked in to write
the lyrics and "Star Dust" was on its way.  Parish recalls that
Walter Winchell loved the tune so much that he plugged it almost
daily in his newspaper column.  I guess from there people got the
idea that they ought to get a copy of this song to hear.

Enjoy!