VIDI-ST     LATEST UPDATE
-------------------------

This version 1.2 has some new features 
- cameos of 16 frames at a time and 
support for hi-res mono, and more ...

The MONO is still under development 
and has not yet been integrated into
the main program. Run the separate
VIDIMONO.PRG - it will only allow you
to change brightness, grab, load and
save in Degas .PI3 hi res format, but
at least that's a start!

Upgrades will be available as soon as 
the final version is ready - if you 
can't wait then send a disk and S.A.E.
for the latest development version at 
any time.

Version 1.25
------------
Frames can be sacrificed to allow
you to use desk accessories.

Pressing SHIFT+Cursor keys will move
the picture up or down the screen
during a grab. Also SHIFT+Insert will
toggle the screen compression in/out.

You can now load and save any palette
from within VIDI.  When  VIDI starts
up, if any of the files  PAL1.PAL to
PAL9.PAL are found then they will be
loaded into palettes 1 to 9.  Other
'.PAL' files may be loaded to the
selected palette.

The selected palette may be saved
under any name ending with '.PAL'.
If you wish to use a palette from one
of your pictures, load the picture
into VIDI and select 'Save palette'
from the menu.  A file selector will
appear asking for the name, and the
palette will be saved with the '.PAL'
extension.  If you use any of the
names PAL1.PAL to PAL9.PAL in the same
directory as VIDI.PRG then these will
be loaded in automatically next time
you use VIDI.  Make sure you re-name
or move the original palettes if you
want to keep them!

To set your own palette from within
Vidi, boot up with the standard Control
and use this from within Vidi. Set up
the colours you require and exit back
to Vidi. Without changing the palette
number, use the 'SAVE Palette' function
and re-load as required.

Errors in the DEGAS PI1 file format
have been corrected.  If you have had
problems loading VIDI pictures into
DEGAS, load the pictures into this
version of VIDI, and re-save. They
should then be acceptable to DEGAS.

           ROMBO  3/3/89



